Recipes/Sliced Garlic Chicken.md, before:

---

type: recipe

title: Sliced Garlic Chicken

source: "NDTV Food (Chef Dipesh Darjee)"

cuisine: Pan-Asian / Indo-Chinese

servings: 4

tags: [chicken, garlic, appetizer, yum-yum-cha, copycat]

created: {{date}}

---

# 🍽️ {{title}}

**Cuisine:** {{cuisine}}  

**Servings:** {{servings}}  

**Source:** {{source}}

  

---

## ✅ What You Need 🍴
- [ ] Oyster sauce
- [ ] Aromatic powder (or chicken seasoning)
- [ ] Chinese cooking wine (Shaoxing)
- [ ] Light soy sauce
- [ ] Cornflour
- [ ] Boneless chicken breast
- [ ] Garlic
- [ ] Dried red chilli
- [ ] Unsalted butter

## 📝 Ingredients 🥘

### Chicken & Coating 🍗
- 200 g boneless chicken breast, thinly sliced
- ½ egg
- 40 g cornflour
- 3 g salt
- 5 ml water
- 1 g white-pepper powder

### For Frying 🍳
- 200 ml vegetable oil (for deep-frying)

### Sauce 🥢
- 5 ml oil
- 5 g dried red chilli (roughly chopped)
- 20 g garlic, peeled & chopped
- 10 g unsalted butter
- 15 g oyster sauce
- 5 g chicken seasoning powder (or bouillon granules)
- 10 ml Chinese cooking wine (Shaoxing)
- 5 ml light soy sauce
- 10 ml water

### Vegetables 🥦
- 20 g onion, sliced
- 10 g spring onions, chopped
- 10 g red capsicum, thin strips

## 👩‍🍳 Method 🍽️

1. **Marinate the chicken** 🍶  
   Combine sliced chicken with egg, salt, water, and cornflour to form a light batter.

2. **Deep-fry** 🍲  
   Heat oil and fry chicken slices  2 min until pale golden. Drain on paper towels.

3. **Prepare sauce** 🍜  
   In a wok, heat oil. Stir-fry dried chilli & garlic 1 min. Add butter, oyster sauce, seasoning powder, cooking wine, soy sauce, and water. Stir well.

4. **Combine** 🍛  
   Add fried chicken, onion, capsicum, and spring onions. Toss on high heat  2 min until coated.

5. **Serve hot** 🍽️  
   Garnish with extra spring onion. Best enjoyed immediately.

## 💡 Notes 📝
- Adjust chilli for spice preference.
- Chicken seasoning powder can be swapped with bouillon granules.
- Keep slices thin for tender bites.
- Serve as an appetizer with toothpicks/skewers.

Commit message:

vault backup: 2025-08-22 00:38:01
Affected files:
Recipes/Sliced Garlic Chicken.md

Recipes/Sliced Garlic Chicken.md, after:

# Brain/Public/Notes/Recipes/Sliced Garlic Chicken.md

---

type: recipe

title: Sliced Garlic Chicken

source: "NDTV Food (Chef Dipesh Darjee)"

cuisine: Pan-Asian / Indo-Chinese

servings: 4

tags: [chicken, garlic, appetizer, yum-yum-cha, copycat]

created: 2025-08-21

---

# 🍽️ `= this.title`

**Cuisine:** `= this.cuisine`  

**Servings:** `= this.servings`  

**Source:** `= this.source`



---

## ✅ What You Need 🍴
- [ ] Oyster sauce
- [ ] Aromatic powder (or chicken seasoning)
- [ ] Chinese cooking wine (Shaoxing)
- [ ] Light soy sauce
- [ ] Cornflour
- [ ] Boneless chicken breast
- [ ] Garlic
- [ ] Dried red chilli
- [ ] Unsalted butter

## 📝 Ingredients 🥘

### Chicken & Coating 🍗
- 200 g boneless chicken breast, thinly sliced
- ½ egg
- 40 g cornflour
- 3 g salt
- 5 ml water
- 1 g white-pepper powder

### For Frying 🍳
- 200 ml vegetable oil (for deep-frying)

### Sauce 🥢
- 5 ml oil
- 5 g dried red chilli (roughly chopped)
- 20 g garlic, peeled & chopped
- 10 g unsalted butter
- 15 g oyster sauce
- 5 g chicken seasoning powder (or bouillon granules)
- 10 ml Chinese cooking wine (Shaoxing)
- 5 ml light soy sauce
- 10 ml water

### Vegetables 🥦
- 20 g onion, sliced
- 10 g spring onions, chopped
- 10 g red capsicum, thin strips

## 👩‍🍳 Method 🍽️

1. **Marinate the chicken** 🍶
   Combine sliced chicken with egg, salt, water, and cornflour to form a light batter.

2. **Deep-fry** 🍲
   Heat oil and fry chicken slices  2 min until pale golden. Drain on paper towels.

3. **Prepare sauce** 🍜
   In a wok, heat oil. Stir-fry dried chilli & garlic 1 min. Add butter, oyster sauce, seasoning powder, cooking wine, soy sauce, and water. Stir well.

4. **Combine** 🍛
   Add fried chicken, onion, capsicum, and spring onions. Toss on high heat  2 min until coated.

5. **Serve hot** 🍽️
   Garnish with extra spring onion. Best enjoyed immediately.

## 💡 Notes 📝
- Adjust chilli for spice preference.
- Chicken seasoning powder can be swapped with bouillon granules.
- Keep slices thin for tender bites.
- Serve as an appetizer with toothpicks/skewers.
