HomeLab/1.Building/3.Setting-Up-Graphic-Card.md, before:

# Installation

This would be pretty simple mount, the Graphic card to PCI Slot (Near to CPU as 2nd PCIe slot doesn't has room). Connect 12Pin Cable to GPU and PowerSupply. Make Sure Screws are tight enough.

# Configurations

## Enable IOMMU

```
nano /etc/default/grub

# If you change this file, run 'update-grub' afterwards to update
# /boot/grub/grub.cfg.
# For full documentation of the options in this file, see:
#   info -f grub -n 'Simple configuration'

GRUB_DEFAULT=0
GRUB_TIMEOUT=5
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`
#GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet amd_iommu=on"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""
```

```
update-grub
reboot
```

Verify if working

```
root@I1-1806:~# dmesg | grep -e DMAR -e IOMMU
[    0.339798] pci 0000:00:00.2: AMD-Vi: IOMMU performance counters supported
[    0.375479] perf/amd_iommu: Detected AMD IOMMU #0 (2 banks, 4 counters/bank).
```

```
root@I1-1806:~# find /sys/kernel/iommu_groups/ -type l
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/17/devices/0000:04:0c.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/17/devices/0000:10:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/7/devices/0000:00:08.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/15/devices/0000:04:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/5/devices/0000:00:03.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/23/devices/0000:12:00.4
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/13/devices/0000:02:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/3/devices/0000:00:02.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/21/devices/0000:12:00.2
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.3
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.1
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.6
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.4
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.2
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.7
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.5
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/1/devices/0000:00:01.1
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/18/devices/0000:04:0d.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/18/devices/0000:11:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/8/devices/0000:00:08.1
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:09:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:04.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:07.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:0c.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:0a:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:04:08.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:06:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:0f:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:06.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:0e:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:05.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:08.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:0d.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/6/devices/0000:00:04.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/24/devices/0000:13:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/14/devices/0000:03:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/4/devices/0000:00:02.1
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/22/devices/0000:12:00.3
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/12/devices/0000:01:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/12/devices/0000:01:00.1
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/2/devices/0000:00:01.2
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/20/devices/0000:12:00.1
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/10/devices/0000:00:14.3
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/10/devices/0000:00:14.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/0/devices/0000:00:01.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/19/devices/0000:12:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/9/devices/0000:00:08.3
```

```
root@I1-1806:~# lspci -nn
00:00.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14d8]
00:00.2 IOMMU [0806]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14d9]
00:01.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14da]
00:01.1 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14db]
00:01.2 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14db]
00:02.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14da]
00:02.1 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14db]
00:03.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14da]
00:04.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14da]
00:08.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14da]
00:08.1 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14dd]
00:08.3 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14dd]
00:14.0 SMBus [0c05]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] FCH SMBus Controller [1022:790b] (rev 71)
00:14.3 ISA bridge [0601]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] FCH LPC Bridge [1022:790e] (rev 51)
00:18.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e0]
00:18.1 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e1]
00:18.2 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e2]
00:18.3 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e3]
00:18.4 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e4]
00:18.5 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e5]
00:18.6 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e6]
00:18.7 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e7]
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation AD102 [GeForce RTX 4090] [10de:2684] (rev a1)
01:00.1 Audio device [0403]: NVIDIA Corporation AD102 High Definition Audio Controller [10de:22ba] (rev a1)
02:00.0 Non-Volatile memory controller [0108]: INNOGRIT Corporation NVMe SSD Controller IG5236 [1dbe:5236] (rev 01)
03:00.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f4] (rev 01)
04:00.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
04:08.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
04:0c.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
04:0d.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
06:00.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f4] (rev 01)
07:00.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
07:04.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
07:05.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
07:06.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
07:07.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
07:08.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
07:0c.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
07:0d.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
09:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Intel Corporation Wi-Fi 6 AX210/AX211/AX411 160MHz [8086:2725] (rev 1a)
0a:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Intel Corporation Ethernet Controller I226-V [8086:125c] (rev 06)
0e:00.0 USB controller [0c03]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f7] (rev 01)
0f:00.0 SATA controller [0106]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f6] (rev 01)
10:00.0 USB controller [0c03]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f7] (rev 01)
11:00.0 SATA controller [0106]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f6] (rev 01)
12:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Raphael [1002:164e] (rev c1)
12:00.1 Audio device [0403]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Rembrandt Radeon High Definition Audio Controller [1002:1640]
12:00.2 Encryption controller [1080]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] VanGogh PSP/CCP [1022:1649]
12:00.3 USB controller [0c03]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:15b6]
12:00.4 USB controller [0c03]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:15b7]
13:00.0 USB controller [0c03]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:15b8]

```

Verify IOMMU Group Isolation 

```
root@I1-1806:~# find /sys/kernel/iommu_groups/ -type l | grep 01:00
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/12/devices/0000:01:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/12/devices/0000:01:00.1
```

## Bind GPU and Audio to VFIO

Create or update the VFIO configuration file to bind the GPU and its audio device:

```
echo "options vfio-pci ids=10de:2684,10de:22ba disable_vga=1" > /etc/modprobe.d/vfio.conf
```

Blacklist the NVIDIA and Nouveau drivers to prevent them from loading:
```
echo "blacklist nouveau" >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo "blacklist nvidia" >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
```

Update the Initial Ram Filesystem.
```
update-initramfs -u
```

```
root@I1-1806:~# update-initramfs -u
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-6.8.4-2-pve
Running hook script 'zz-proxmox-boot'..
Re-executing '/etc/kernel/postinst.d/zz-proxmox-boot' in new private mount namespace..
No /etc/kernel/cmdline found - falling back to /proc/cmdline
/dev/disk/by-uuid/D910-879A contains no grub directory - skipping
```

 **Error (Optional)**

```
root@I1-1806:~# update-initramfs -u
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-6.8.4-2-pve
Running hook script 'zz-proxmox-boot'..
Re-executing '/etc/kernel/postinst.d/zz-proxmox-boot' in new private mount namespace..
No /etc/kernel/cmdline found - falling back to /proc/cmdline
/dev/disk/by-uuid/D910-879A contains no grub directory - skipping
```

The GPU passthrough setup appears to be on the right track. The issue with the Proxmox Boot Tool (`/dev/disk/by-uuid/D910-879A contains no grub directory`) doesn't directly impact the GPU passthrough. It just indicates that Proxmox is unable to sync the bootloader, likely because your EFI partition doesn't have a proper GRUB setup. This step is optional unless you're troubleshooting bootloader-specific issues.

Skip the Error For now Lets proceed.

Reboot and verify

```
root@I1-1806:~# lspci -nnk -d 10de:2684
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation AD102 [GeForce RTX 4090] [10de:2684] (rev a1)
	Subsystem: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. [MSI] AD102 [GeForce RTX 4090] [1462:5103]
	Kernel driver in use: vfio-pci
	Kernel modules: nvidiafb, nouveau
root@I1-1806:~# lspci -nnk -d 10de:22ba
01:00.1 Audio device [0403]: NVIDIA Corporation AD102 High Definition Audio Controller [10de:22ba] (rev a1)
	Subsystem: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. [MSI] AD102 High Definition Audio Controller [1462:5103]
	Kernel driver in use: vfio-pci
	Kernel modules: snd_hda_intel
```

Once `vfio-pci`, Lets add it to VM.

```
`nano /etc/pve/qemu-server/<VMID>.conf`

hostpci0: 0000:01:00.0,pcie=1
hostpci1: 0000:01:00.1,pcie=1
```

![[attachments/2024-12-11_15-37-01.png]]

## Installing The Nvidia Graphic Card  Drivers in Talos Linux

Talos Linux ISO Link https://factory.talos.dev/?arch=amd64&cmdline-set=true&extensions=-&extensions=siderolabs%2Fnvidia-container-toolkit-lts&extensions=siderolabs%2Fnonfree-kmod-nvidia-lts&platform=metal&target=metal&version=1.9.3

```
customization:
    systemExtensions:
        officialExtensions:
            - siderolabs/nonfree-kmod-nvidia-lts
            - siderolabs/nvidia-container-toolkit-lts
            - siderolabs/qemu-guest-agent
```

Upgrade the node with Extensions, Only Use Nvidia extensions on node with GPU enabled.


```
talosctl upgrade --nodes 192.168.0.5 \
  --image #Get the URL from Talos Page
```

Follow the Guide at https://www.talos.dev/v1.9/talos-guides/configuration/nvidia-gpu-proprietary/

Once GPU is connected to Node, The Fans shall off in Idle state.

Commit message:

vault backup: 2025-04-07 16:01:19
Affected files:
HomeLab/1.Building/3.Setting-Up-Graphic-Card.md

HomeLab/1.Building/3.Setting-Up-Graphic-Card.md, after:

# Installation

Mount the GPU into the **primary PCIe slot** (closest to the CPU, as the second slot lacks clearance).  
Connect the **12-pin power cable** from the PSU to the GPU.  
Ensure all screws are tight and secure.

# Configurations

## Enable IOMMU

```
nano /etc/default/grub

# If you change this file, run 'update-grub' afterwards to update
# /boot/grub/grub.cfg.
# For full documentation of the options in this file, see:
#   info -f grub -n 'Simple configuration'

GRUB_DEFAULT=0
GRUB_TIMEOUT=5
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`
#GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet amd_iommu=on"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""
```

```
update-grub
reboot
```

Verify if working

```
root@I1-1806:~# dmesg | grep -e DMAR -e IOMMU
[    0.339798] pci 0000:00:00.2: AMD-Vi: IOMMU performance counters supported
[    0.375479] perf/amd_iommu: Detected AMD IOMMU #0 (2 banks, 4 counters/bank).
```

```
root@I1-1806:~# find /sys/kernel/iommu_groups/ -type l
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/17/devices/0000:04:0c.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/17/devices/0000:10:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/7/devices/0000:00:08.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/15/devices/0000:04:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/5/devices/0000:00:03.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/23/devices/0000:12:00.4
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/13/devices/0000:02:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/3/devices/0000:00:02.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/21/devices/0000:12:00.2
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.3
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.1
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.6
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.4
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.2
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.7
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/11/devices/0000:00:18.5
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/1/devices/0000:00:01.1
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/18/devices/0000:04:0d.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/18/devices/0000:11:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/8/devices/0000:00:08.1
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:09:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:04.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:07.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:0c.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:0a:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:04:08.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:06:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:0f:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:06.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:0e:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:05.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:08.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/16/devices/0000:07:0d.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/6/devices/0000:00:04.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/24/devices/0000:13:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/14/devices/0000:03:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/4/devices/0000:00:02.1
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/22/devices/0000:12:00.3
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/12/devices/0000:01:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/12/devices/0000:01:00.1
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/2/devices/0000:00:01.2
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/20/devices/0000:12:00.1
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/10/devices/0000:00:14.3
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/10/devices/0000:00:14.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/0/devices/0000:00:01.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/19/devices/0000:12:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/9/devices/0000:00:08.3
```

```
root@I1-1806:~# lspci -nn
00:00.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14d8]
00:00.2 IOMMU [0806]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14d9]
00:01.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14da]
00:01.1 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14db]
00:01.2 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14db]
00:02.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14da]
00:02.1 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14db]
00:03.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14da]
00:04.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14da]
00:08.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14da]
00:08.1 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14dd]
00:08.3 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14dd]
00:14.0 SMBus [0c05]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] FCH SMBus Controller [1022:790b] (rev 71)
00:14.3 ISA bridge [0601]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] FCH LPC Bridge [1022:790e] (rev 51)
00:18.0 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e0]
00:18.1 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e1]
00:18.2 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e2]
00:18.3 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e3]
00:18.4 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e4]
00:18.5 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e5]
00:18.6 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e6]
00:18.7 Host bridge [0600]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:14e7]
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation AD102 [GeForce RTX 4090] [10de:2684] (rev a1)
01:00.1 Audio device [0403]: NVIDIA Corporation AD102 High Definition Audio Controller [10de:22ba] (rev a1)
02:00.0 Non-Volatile memory controller [0108]: INNOGRIT Corporation NVMe SSD Controller IG5236 [1dbe:5236] (rev 01)
03:00.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f4] (rev 01)
04:00.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
04:08.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
04:0c.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
04:0d.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
06:00.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f4] (rev 01)
07:00.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
07:04.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
07:05.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
07:06.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
07:07.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
07:08.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
07:0c.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
07:0d.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f5] (rev 01)
09:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Intel Corporation Wi-Fi 6 AX210/AX211/AX411 160MHz [8086:2725] (rev 1a)
0a:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Intel Corporation Ethernet Controller I226-V [8086:125c] (rev 06)
0e:00.0 USB controller [0c03]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f7] (rev 01)
0f:00.0 SATA controller [0106]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f6] (rev 01)
10:00.0 USB controller [0c03]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f7] (rev 01)
11:00.0 SATA controller [0106]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:43f6] (rev 01)
12:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Raphael [1002:164e] (rev c1)
12:00.1 Audio device [0403]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Rembrandt Radeon High Definition Audio Controller [1002:1640]
12:00.2 Encryption controller [1080]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] VanGogh PSP/CCP [1022:1649]
12:00.3 USB controller [0c03]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:15b6]
12:00.4 USB controller [0c03]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:15b7]
13:00.0 USB controller [0c03]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] Device [1022:15b8]

```

Verify IOMMU Group Isolation 

```
root@I1-1806:~# find /sys/kernel/iommu_groups/ -type l | grep 01:00
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/12/devices/0000:01:00.0
/sys/kernel/iommu_groups/12/devices/0000:01:00.1
```

## Bind GPU and Audio to VFIO

Create or update the VFIO configuration file to bind the GPU and its audio device:

```
echo "options vfio-pci ids=10de:2684,10de:22ba disable_vga=1" > /etc/modprobe.d/vfio.conf
```

Blacklist the NVIDIA and Nouveau drivers to prevent them from loading:
```
echo "blacklist nouveau" >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo "blacklist nvidia" >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
```

Update the Initial Ram Filesystem.
```
update-initramfs -u
```

```
root@I1-1806:~# update-initramfs -u
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-6.8.4-2-pve
Running hook script 'zz-proxmox-boot'..
Re-executing '/etc/kernel/postinst.d/zz-proxmox-boot' in new private mount namespace..
No /etc/kernel/cmdline found - falling back to /proc/cmdline
/dev/disk/by-uuid/D910-879A contains no grub directory - skipping
```

 **Error (Optional)**

```
root@I1-1806:~# update-initramfs -u
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-6.8.4-2-pve
Running hook script 'zz-proxmox-boot'..
Re-executing '/etc/kernel/postinst.d/zz-proxmox-boot' in new private mount namespace..
No /etc/kernel/cmdline found - falling back to /proc/cmdline
/dev/disk/by-uuid/D910-879A contains no grub directory - skipping
```

The GPU passthrough setup appears to be on the right track. The issue with the Proxmox Boot Tool (`/dev/disk/by-uuid/D910-879A contains no grub directory`) doesn't directly impact the GPU passthrough. It just indicates that Proxmox is unable to sync the bootloader, likely because your EFI partition doesn't have a proper GRUB setup. This step is optional unless you're troubleshooting bootloader-specific issues.

Skip the Error For now Lets proceed.

Reboot and verify

```
root@I1-1806:~# lspci -nnk -d 10de:2684
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: NVIDIA Corporation AD102 [GeForce RTX 4090] [10de:2684] (rev a1)
	Subsystem: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. [MSI] AD102 [GeForce RTX 4090] [1462:5103]
	Kernel driver in use: vfio-pci
	Kernel modules: nvidiafb, nouveau
root@I1-1806:~# lspci -nnk -d 10de:22ba
01:00.1 Audio device [0403]: NVIDIA Corporation AD102 High Definition Audio Controller [10de:22ba] (rev a1)
	Subsystem: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. [MSI] AD102 High Definition Audio Controller [1462:5103]
	Kernel driver in use: vfio-pci
	Kernel modules: snd_hda_intel
```

Once `vfio-pci`, Lets add it to VM.

```
`nano /etc/pve/qemu-server/<VMID>.conf`

hostpci0: 0000:01:00.0,pcie=1
hostpci1: 0000:01:00.1,pcie=1
```

![[attachments/2024-12-11_15-37-01.png]]

## Installing The Nvidia Graphic Card  Drivers in Talos Linux

Talos Linux ISO Link https://factory.talos.dev/?arch=amd64&cmdline-set=true&extensions=-&extensions=siderolabs%2Fnvidia-container-toolkit-lts&extensions=siderolabs%2Fnonfree-kmod-nvidia-lts&platform=metal&target=metal&version=1.9.3

```
customization:
    systemExtensions:
        officialExtensions:
            - siderolabs/nonfree-kmod-nvidia-lts
            - siderolabs/nvidia-container-toolkit-lts
            - siderolabs/qemu-guest-agent
```

Upgrade the node with Extensions, Only Use Nvidia extensions on node with GPU enabled.

```
talosctl upgrade --nodes 192.168.0.5 \
  --image #Get the URL from Talos Page
```

Follow the Guide at https://www.talos.dev/v1.9/talos-guides/configuration/nvidia-gpu-proprietary/

Once GPU is connected to Node, The Fans shall off in Idle state.
